---
layout: post
title: Paxful About Page
author: Paxful
authorurl: /paxful/
published: true
---

<p>Paxul has been integrated with Backpage and there is this helpful guide: <a href="/how-to-use-bitcoin-with-backpage/">How To Use Bitcoin With Backpage</a>.
<center><iframe width="700" height="394" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/MRcA01xt2L0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>
<h2>Why Choose Us</h2>
<p>We are a marketplace for the people. If you are not a day trader or big bank then you have found your marketplace. Enabling peers to exchange value between each other for profit and savings globally and securely is only now possible through blockchain technologies and bitcoin. We have built the first global peer to peer marketplace to do this for the mainstream.
<h2>Our Mission</h2>
<p>To give working people a simple, fair and secure platform for trading their value. Often our biggest problems revolve around money, earning it and transporting it. The world of bitcoin gives us all new opportunities to do both in freedom. Our ultimate goal is to enable communities worldwide to unlock their potential.
<h2>What We Do</h2>
<p>We connect buyers and sellers. Think "Seamless for Money". Enabling the people to solve their own money problems through their own fiancial instruments. Peer to Peer is the future. We make things simple and show people new ways of doing business. Our system supports all payment methods and all currencies. Our secure escrow and proven feedback system are modeled after industry leaders specifically for a peer to peer money marketplace.